input and output.
This lesson is about writing a script where the script will wait for the user in.
So when you run the script,
the script will wait for a for you to type in something so it would take your command and
then output based on that written statement that you have given to the script.
So the way it works that the things are the scripting commands that you need to use for
that is read which will wait for your input,
and the output would be eco.
So whatever that you input,
it will output to the screen using the echo comment.
So,
um,
let me lock into the machine and I will show you how this could be done before had confused
ume.
Or so I have my machine open right here,
and I am in my home.
I have sold my scripts directory.
Um,
I am going to create a script a little,
um,
in put It's like that and I'm gonna go ahead.
Yeah,
I will define the variable.
Um,
next thing is,
you know,
you put the author I'm not going to just wait.
Times a date,
mom description and so on anyway.
So you you you should type everything.
I would definitely recommend you.
So again,
since you don't have time,
I really want you learn fast.
So don't worry about it at this.
Then you,
um you put in like,
um Echo.
Hello.
My name having a bad time type.
Okay,
so hello.
My name is M Ron Capsule.
And as you know,
it will just simply display that line on the screen.
Now what we wanted to do next,
then we wanted to do re no.
Sorry.
Um put a gorgeous for a empty line and then go,
what is your name?
So now we're asking user for user input and the way the script is gonna wait for the user
input as by simply command read the read is actual command in UNIX or Lennox that will wait
for the user in No,
you have to define a variable to read.
So any the variable anything that user types will be automatically added to the variable.
And what is that variable?
Well,
you have to specify or defined every Let's say,
um,
pick any variable.
Let's you and I picked name,
So we'll say you know what when user put in the name put in Put that input into a container
into a variable and their variable name is actually name was just you know what in simple
words,
um,
name contain.
So make it easy so you don't you are not confused with name name itself.
No.
Once the usurper whites that information ah Then simply put an empty line and then do echo
.
Hello.
And now you put dollar name container,
which ever variable you have defined to hit her and go and that's pretty much let's give it
proper permissions.
Probably missions are there.
Let's run it.
Okay,
you see the first line on the screen as Hello,
My name is Imron absolute or your name.
And now it's asking you what is your name?
So it's waiting.
See,
you didn't get the prompt back.
Why?
Because the script is waiting for your input.
So let's say you want to type something.
Let's say,
um,
Jerry sign And now you hit Enter and it's gonna see Hello,
Jerry Seinfeld.
That's how the input and output script works.
Of course,
it gets some ah,
little bit more complicated as equal on,
but basically,
if you wanted to write a script and you wanted to take the input off the user.
You have to use a read command.
Now let's edit the same script at a few more things in the script and make make it more,
um,
professional.
Let's see V I input script and now wanted to define variable.
So I'll say,
um,
the variable.
It's a equal host name and you know,
host name is actual command.
And Lennox that will give you the host name off your system.
So I wanted to say hello.
My So we're name is Cellular Eight.
And what is that?
Dollar?
A.
The dollar A is a the container right here.
And that container is what host name that I will show you right here.
And then you'll say,
What is your name?
And now,
just for giggles?
I wanted to change the read it to just a different container.
I'll put B So just so clarify that don't you do not focus on the container name container
name could be anything.
So you are asking what is your name?
And the user who's gonna provide the name will be put into the container called B.
Now echo.
Hello.
Being and by Okay,
So now what we're doing,
we're saying,
is that when you run the script,
tell the user Hello.
My server name is dollar ate.
And what?
His dollar?
A dollar is the host name,
and it will print it here.
And what is your name?
And you will put in your name and it will.
I'll put back to your name.
No,
before I run it.
I just want to tell you one thing.
There will be error in the script.
Why?
Because when you define command,
would the,
um a variable?
You could run their variable.
If you only simply type dollar a,
then it will run it.
But if you try to run that variable using like eco command,
then you have to have this ticks on the side.
What are those ticks?
Those techs are right below your escape key.
Those other ticks.
So you have to have those.
But anywhere I want to take it out for now.
Just so you see that?
What do we get if he don't put those ticks in there?
So escape?
Save it.
No,
Let's run it.
It's his.
Hello.
My server name is host name.
Okay?
It actually took the exact name that I type.
It didn't think that it's a command.
And it now,
this is what is your name?
So I'm gonna put it Imron f cyl and is going to say hello,
Imron.
Okay,
so this part from right here to hear works this part from here to here works.
But I wanted to have my host name here.
And what is my host name?
My host name is my first Linux VM.
I wanted to have that displayed here.
So going back to what I was saying is,
if you are defining a variable and you want to run that variable with echo,
then you have to put the little tics that is right below um,
the escape character or escape key.
And also below the that little curly thing.
So now let's run it and see if it works.
Ah,
yes,
it did.
You see right here.
Hello.
My server name is this is the whole What is your name?
Okay.
Imron.
Hello,
Absolute.
See,
that's how the input and output script works.
Cried out with different things,
play around with it and ask question back and forth,
back and forth.
So first you should.
What you should do is as your,
um,
practice.
What you should do is you could put more than one read how you could do it is like this.
Put,
um,
go just to empty line.
And then you do again Echo.
What is your profession or your occupation?
What do you do?
And then you have to read here again.
Read.
See?
And then,
um then you do echo again.
One more eco.
And now put in,
um,
do you like,
you know,
let's put it what is your favor show?
And now this time,
read A we have used be Have you see?
Now,
use D.
Okay,
that's it.
Now,
what do we have to do?
Is first thing is had to say is cool.
It will.
Hello.
My name.
Next thing I want to do is it should echo.
Um,
you're you're profession,
which is whatever the profession see is awesome.
Next one,
um,
dollar D,
which is favorite chew is good.
You see how I did it first?
I asked three questions one to and three.
Once I have all those three questions asked.
Then I have put all these question different containers.
And I am all putting those containers one by one by saying Hello,
Imron of soul echo your profession,
whichever is is awesome.
And then your show,
whatever the show is,
is a good show.
Let's see.
Run it successfully and put Okay,
The first name for the first question comes up.
What is your name?
Imron.
Yes.
See,
now it gave me a second question.
It didn't give me the output right away.
Now it's waiting for me to give it all the information it wants.
What is your profession?
That's a,
um engineer.
Okay,
what is your favorite show?
Sign fell.
And now and I hit Enter because I have answered all the three questions and it will say
hello,
Imron.
Absolute.
Your profession engineer is awesome.
Seinfeld is a good show.
See how it works.
Now think off this now when you are installing a program or you are executing some kind off
script and or even if its windows or even of his Lennox.
Now you know that when you going through the visit and ask you questions do you want
installed at you?
Say yes.
No.
Put in your organization name.
Put it this.
You've type in your name and this and that.
All the information that system gathers from you,
it actually plugs that information inside wherever your variable is defined.
So that's just a simple example of that.
So it's like your little script visit that will take all the information,
and it will send it out on the screen.
You could also take that information and put in your database.
Send it out in eczema,
whichever the way you want.
So that's how you work with input and output scripts again,
Um,
I will say,
Go ahead and keep that script long at more things to wear.
It had fun things to it.
Ah,
there so much you could do with it.
And if you wanted to share that,
your new creative script,
you might get sent me an email.
And I hope your script runs without any error.
If it If you get through any problems not to worry about it,
that's how we learn